Documentation for the Remootio integration (#20970)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/remootio.markdown

---
title: Remootio
ha_release: ???
ha_category:
  - Cover
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_domain: remootio
ha_codeowners:
  - '@ivgg-me'

> ha_config_flow: true

Reviewer: missing `description` and `ha_platforms`

Author: I have created my documentation according the [documentation of Home Assistant](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/create-page). Is this part of the Home Assistant documentation out of date?

Author: Fixed.

Reviewer: it's a little bit out of date 😉

---

This integration lets you control [Remootio](https://www.remootio.com/) controlled garage doors and/or gates through Home Assistant.

### Requirements

> To use this integration with your Remootio device it must have at least the software version _2.21_, has to be connected to your Wi-Fi, must have a fixed IP address assigned and 
> a status sensor installed. Furthermore the API access must be enabled on the device.
> 
> To enable the API access on your Remootio device you need to access it using the master key via the Remootio app, afterwards go to the _Websocket API_ settings 
> in the _Device software_ section of the device settings and enbale the API with logging.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use this integration with your Remootio device it must have at least the software version _2.21_, has to be connected to your Wi-Fi, must have a fixed IP address assigned and 
a status sensor installed. Furthermore, the API access must be enabled on the device.

To enable the API access on your Remootio device you need to access it using the master key via the Remootio app, afterward go to the _Websocket API_ settings 
in the _Device software_ section of the device settings and enable the API with logging.
```

in the _Device software_ section of the device settings and enable the API with logging.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Events

> The integration fires the event `remootio_left_open` if the Remootio controlled garage door or garden gate has been left open for 5 minutes.

Reviewer 2: Can we use device actions instead?

Author: According to the [documentation](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/device_automation_action/) device actions allow a user to have a device do something. 

In this case the Remootio device fires an event if the controlled garage door or garden gate has been left open for 5 minutes. Based on this event the integration fires the `remootio_left_open` [Home Assistant event](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/integration_events).

Reviewer 2: > In this case the Remootio device fires an event if the controlled garage door or garden gate has been left open for 5 minutes. 

Device actions are using events under the hood, but provide UI controls to interact with those.

<https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/device_automation_index>

Author: If you mean that this is really needed for the first version of the integration, please make then an request for change in home-assistant/core#63155. Thank you!

Reviewer 2: Maybe to much for a first version indeed. however, lets at least not use json here.

Author: > Maybe to much for a first version indeed. however, lets at least not use json here.

Sorry, I don't understand. What you mean with _not use json here_?

Reviewer 2: Nevermind it is indeed the raw event output.  👍
